Now
we'll discuss Network address translation
which as we introduced earlier is going to be one of the mechanisms that will be used to address the limited number of IP addresses that are available for usage
So
what is Network address translation
Why do we have it
Well
before we had naps
let's go back to that time every machine
So every computer that was connected to the internet
would have a unique IP address
So
for example
if we have two clients connected up to the Internet
one might have IP address 1, 2, 3 4
And the other one
one
two
three five
So that when this computer 1 2 3 4 cents information over
let's say it's a request for web traffic on Port
80, it would send as well as a local court that was used for say the web client that sending that request your web server located at over on the server
And this is just part of what the IP actually the TCP header would look like to this print
The TCP header that has the transport layer information of the port
this part
the IP a door that has
The information about the particular addressing should send that to the server
The destination address presumably would get routed over to the server
And server would figure out what was requested
It would then produce a message that
Okay
I'm sending back to Port 1001 so that the information
it goes back to the say web client running on computer with address 1234
So
that's how things would work before we had napped
However
we only have about four billion IP addresses
So independently a sighting addresses to every computer connected to the Internet isn't going to work
We have too many devices their way over four billion devices connected
So instead we'll use a private address block
One of those special purpose blocks
We've talked about a standard one
Is this 192
0 and then what we'll do is we'll use the additional information
We have through port numbers
to perform this
to perform a multiplexing
Andy multiplexing
process to figure out the appropriate internal address
So now instead of having the clients assigned
addresses like 1 2 3 4 and 1 2 3 5
Only the router is assigned a public IP address 1234
And now the clients are assigned
Private IP addresses
starting with 192
So now
when client 1 9 2
4 say
does the same web request to get information
It's using Port 1001
Let's say if it sends that request out the router
Now
would take this information and it would rewrite that private address that's used along with the port from the process that sent this request out on host at 4
It would rewrite that address and replace the IP
header IP and TCP IP Header information to now
use the public IP address 1, 2, 3 4 with a Newport
That it's selected
So it would modify the package and change the packet header
to use that new from or Source address for where the information request was coming from
So that when it sent over to the server
the server knows how to respond it receives this request
Rhian codes a response back to send it back to
The router with address 1234
I'd also encodes that port address
That was sent with the request
So now and the router receives it
it knows because it kept track of Court
Mm
corresponding to the IP address
4 from the process running at Port 1001 on that client
Okay
So now it would have decoded that it would
Now rewrite the IP address replace the two thousand with the appropriate port and replace the public-address that it received with the appropriate client address
All right
so that would go on down to the client
And basically this is the mechanism that gets used with an app to use the port numbers to do the multiplexing
Andy multiplexing to internal addresses
So if we instead had something from the other client
if it sent two request out
we could then assign it a different part number and we could rewrite the IP and TCP header is using that Newport number and a similar process would occur at the server would rewrite to send back to the public IP address with this new port
number that corresponds to the client
So that as it comes back the router would then rewrite the address
The 192
2.3.5 with the appropriate number say 1001, right
Cuz I did receive a packet that had been labeled with port number 2001
So now that information would get back to the client
That's basically how that would work
That's the general process for that and that is widely used your
possibly using it
Now
if you're connected behind a router and if you're using an ipv4 and IPv6, so let's just come back to a few final issues that we've brought up in terms of scalability of the internet
So how much address space
which they should we allocate for particular
geographic region
Should it be related to population or should we give every country in equal number
What about this
allocation has been going on for a long time
What do we do about addresses already allocated
What about address space portability
Can you keep your address block
If you change providers sort of like keeping your phone number
That would be good and that you don't have to remember your network equipment
but it might might reduce the effectiveness of having address
Organ aggregation
What about keeping the ad
Registries up-to-date
So
what if companies merge or acquire
their lot of potential issues that can arise in determining how to allocate addresses
So we won't try to solve all these things to be aware of that if made some of the way that IPS IP addresses are allocated
fairly complicated
Set of summarize everything we've discussed with IP address thing we talked about for ipv4 how a 32-bit number is to identify interfaces the allocation of these using prefixes
I sort of like again basically using zip codes with postal mail or area codes with phone numbers using things like Cedar and having a non-uniform hierarchy enable scalability using the prefix has to route to specific networks
Vs
Individual hosts is very effective
And as one of the key drivers of scalability
there are several special-purpose blocks that we discussed Reserve to a particularly for handling local addressing
How the addressing allocation occurs is a process involving a variety of organizations such as I can the regional registrars the IP
isps your service provider
your own internal organization that work if it's just a home network
not a big deal
But if you're not going to station or a business
some issues there for how to resolve all that
finally down to a host and what'll be coming up in some of the later lectures that we haven't completely discussed is how a horse would get assigned
Addresses say on a customer internal Network that's typically done with DHCP
How we would perform a mapping from an IP address to a link address
That's done with the protocol called ARP
And then how we would map from human-readable hosts are domain names
like
saved
vanderbilt.edu
to a particular IP address and that's done with the DNS server
In a cover
these three topics and some later lectures
which will sort of wrap up how addressing occurs across the various layers that we've seen within the TCP IP and at Westside models